README.md, before:

# OpenCode Manager

Mobile-first web interface for OpenCode AI agents. Manage, control, and code with OpenCode from any device - your phone, tablet, or desktop. Features Git integration, file management, and real-time chat in a responsive PWA. Deploy with Docker for instant setup. View diffs, edit files and much more.  

## Features

### Repository Management
- **Multi-Repository Support** - Clone and manage multiple git repos/worktrees in local workspaces
- **Private Repository Support** - GitHub PAT configuration for cloning private repos
- **Worktree Support** - Create and manage Git worktrees for working on multiple branches

### Git Integration
- **Git Diff Viewer** - View file changes with unified diff, line numbers, and addition/deletion counts
- **Git Status Panel** - See all uncommitted changes (modified, added, deleted, renamed, untracked)
- **Branch Switching** - Switch between branches via dropdown
- **Branch/Worktree Creation** - Create new branch workspaces from any repository
- **Ahead/Behind Tracking** - Shows commits ahead/behind remote
- **Push PRs to GitHub** - Create and push pull requests directly from your phone

### File Browser
- **Directory Navigation** - Browse files and folders with tree view
- **File Search** - Search files within directories
- **Syntax Highlighting** - Code preview with syntax highlighting
- **File Operations** - Create files/folders, rename, delete
- **Drag-and-Drop Upload** - Upload files by dragging into the browser
- **Large File Support** - Virtualization for large files
- **ZIP Download** - Download repos as ZIP excluding gitignored files

### Chat & Session Features
- **Slash Commands** - Built-in commands (`/help`, `/new`, `/models`, `/export`, `/compact`, etc.)
- **Custom Commands** - Create custom slash commands with templates
- **File Mentions** - Reference files with `@filename` autocomplete
- **Plan/Build Mode Toggle** - Switch between read-only and file-change modes
- **Mermaid Diagram Support** - Visual diagram rendering in chat messages
- **Session Management** - Create, search, delete, and bulk delete sessions
- **Real-time Streaming** - Live message streaming with SSE

### AI Model & Provider Configuration
- **Model Selection** - Browse and select from available AI models with filtering
- **Provider Management** - Configure multiple AI providers with API keys or OAuth
- **OAuth Authentication** - Secure OAuth login for supported providers (Anthropic, GitHub Copilot)
- **Context Usage Indicator** - Visual progress bar showing token usage
- **Agent Configuration** - Create custom agents with system prompts and tool permissions

### MCP Server Management
- **MCP Server Configuration** - Add local (command-based) or remote (HTTP) MCP servers
- **Server Templates** - Pre-built templates for common MCP servers
- **Enable/Disable Servers** - Toggle servers on/off with auto-restart

### Settings & Customization
- **Theme Selection** - Dark, Light, or System theme
- **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Customizable keyboard shortcuts
- **OpenCode Config Editor** - Raw JSON editor for advanced configuration

### Mobile & PWA
- **Mobile-First Design** - Responsive UI optimized for mobile use
- **PWA Support** - Installable as Progressive Web App
- **iOS Keyboard Support** - Proper keyboard handling on iOS
- **Enter Key Send** - Press Enter to automatically close keyboard and send messages
- **Swipe-to-Navigate** - Swipe right from left edge to navigate back

### Text-to-Speech (TTS)
- **Dual Provider Support** - Browser-native Web Speech API + external OpenAI-compatible endpoints
- **Browser-Native TTS** - Built-in Web Speech API for instant playback without API keys
- **AI Message Playback** - Listen to assistant responses with TTS
- **OpenAI-Compatible** - Works with any OpenAI-compatible TTS endpoint
- **Voice & Speed Discovery** - Automatic voice detection with caching (1hr TTL)
- **Voice & Speed Controls** - Configurable voice selection and playback speed
- **Audio Caching** - 24-hour cache with 200MB limit for performance
- **Markdown Sanitization** - Filters unreadable symbols for smooth playback
- **Floating Controls** - Persistent stop button for audio control
- **Custom Endpoints** - Connect to local or self-hosted TTS services

## Screenshots

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Files (Mobile)</strong></td>
<td><strong>Files (Desktop)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24243e5e-ab02-44ff-a719-263f61c3178b" alt="files-mobile" /></td>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a37feb0-391c-48a1-8bda-44a046aad913" alt="files-desktop" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Chat (Mobile)</strong></td>
<td><strong>Chat (Desktop)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a48cc728-e540-4247-879a-c5f36c3fd6de" alt="chat-mobile" width="250" /></td>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5fe34443-1d06-4847-a397-ef472aae0932" alt="chat-desktop" width="600" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Inline Diff View</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b94c0ca0-d960-4888-8a25-a31ed6d5068d" alt="inline-diff-view" width="250" /></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Coming Soon

-  **Authentication** - User authentication and session management

## Installation

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended for Production)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/chriswritescode-dev/opencode-manager.git
cd opencode-manager

# Start with Docker Compose (single container)
docker-compose up -d

# Access the application at http://localhost:5001
```

The Docker setup automatically:
- Installs OpenCode if not present
- Builds and serves frontend from backend
- Sets up persistent volumes for workspace and database
- Includes health checks and auto-restart

**Docker Commands:**
```bash
# Start container
docker-compose up -d

# Stop and remove container
docker-compose down

# Rebuild image
docker-compose build

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Restart container
docker-compose restart

# Access container shell
docker exec -it opencode-manager sh
```

### Dev Server Ports

The Docker container exposes ports `5100-5103` for running dev servers inside your repositories. Configure your project's dev server to use one of these ports and access it directly from your browser.

**Example usage:**
```bash
# Vite (vite.config.ts)
server: { port: 5100, host: '0.0.0.0' }

# Next.js
next dev -p 5100 -H 0.0.0.0

# Express/Node
app.listen(5100, '0.0.0.0')
```

Access your dev server at `http://localhost:5100` (or your Docker host IP).

To customize the exposed ports, edit `docker-compose.yml`:
```yaml
ports:
  - "5003:5003"      # OpenCode Manager
  - "5100:5100"      # Dev server 1
  - "5101:5101"      # Dev server 2
  - "5102:5102"      # Dev server 3
  - "5103:5103"      # Dev server 4
```

### Global Agent Instructions (AGENTS.md)

OpenCode Manager creates a default `AGENTS.md` file in the workspace config directory (`/workspace/.config/opencode/AGENTS.md`). This file provides global instructions to AI agents working within the container.

**Default instructions include:**
- Reserved ports (5003 for OpenCode Manager, 5551 for OpenCode server)
- Available dev server ports (5100-5103)
- Guidelines for binding to `0.0.0.0` for Docker accessibility

**Editing AGENTS.md:**
- Via UI: Settings > OpenCode > Global Agent Instructions
- Via file: Edit `/workspace/.config/opencode/AGENTS.md` directly

This file is merged with any repository-specific `AGENTS.md` files, with repository instructions taking precedence for their respective codebases.

### Option 2: Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/chriswritescode-dev/opencode-manager.git
cd opencode-manager

# Install dependencies (uses Bun workspaces)
bun install

# Copy environment configuration
cp .env.example .env

# Start development servers (backend + frontend)
npm run dev
```

## OAuth Provider Setup

OpenCode WebUI supports OAuth authentication for select providers, offering a more secure and convenient alternative to API keys.

### Supported OAuth Providers

- **Anthropic (Claude)** - OAuth login with Claude Pro/Max accounts
- **GitHub Copilot** - OAuth device flow authentication

### Setting Up OAuth

1. **Navigate to Settings → Provider Credentials**
2. **Select a provider** that shows the "OAuth" badge
3. **Click "Add OAuth"** to start the authorization flow
4. **Choose authentication method:**
   - **"Open Authorization Page"** - Opens browser for sign-in
   - **"Use Authorization Code"** - Provides code for manual entry
5. **Complete authorization** in the browser or enter the provided code
6. **Connection status** will show as "Configured" when successful

Commit message:

docs: explain why we use VibeTechnologies/opencode fork
Add section explaining the fork rationale:
- Context overflow fix from PR #6234
- File persistence for large tool outputs
- Prevents 'prompt is too long' errors
- Plan to return to upstream once fix is merged

README.md, after:

# OpenCode Manager

Mobile-first web interface for OpenCode AI agents. Manage, control, and code with OpenCode from any device - your phone, tablet, or desktop. Features Git integration, file management, and real-time chat in a responsive PWA. Deploy with Docker for instant setup. View diffs, edit files and much more.

## Why We Use a Fork of OpenCode

This project builds OpenCode from [VibeTechnologies/opencode](https://github.com/VibeTechnologies/opencode), a fork of the official [sst/opencode](https://github.com/sst/opencode) repository. We maintain this fork to include critical fixes that haven't yet been merged upstream.

### Current Fork Enhancements

**File Persistence for Large Tool Outputs** ([PR #6234](https://github.com/sst/opencode/pull/6234))

The official OpenCode has a known issue where large tool outputs (WebFetch, Bash, MCP tools) can overflow the context window, causing:
- "prompt is too long" errors (e.g., `202744 tokens > 200000 maximum`)
- Sessions becoming stuck/unresponsive
- Loss of work when context overflows mid-conversation

Our fork includes the fix from PR #6234 which implements intelligent file persistence:
- Tool outputs exceeding 30,000 characters are saved to disk instead of the context
- The AI model receives a file path with instructions to explore the data using Read/Grep/jq
- Context stays small, preventing overflow errors
- Files are automatically cleaned up when sessions are deleted

This fix is essential for production use cases where AI agents frequently fetch documentation, analyze large codebases, or work with verbose tool outputs.

### Staying Up-to-Date

We regularly sync our fork with upstream sst/opencode to incorporate new features and fixes. Once PR #6234 is merged upstream, we plan to switch back to the official release.  

## Features

### Repository Management
- **Multi-Repository Support** - Clone and manage multiple git repos/worktrees in local workspaces
- **Private Repository Support** - GitHub PAT configuration for cloning private repos
- **Worktree Support** - Create and manage Git worktrees for working on multiple branches

### Git Integration
- **Git Diff Viewer** - View file changes with unified diff, line numbers, and addition/deletion counts
- **Git Status Panel** - See all uncommitted changes (modified, added, deleted, renamed, untracked)
- **Branch Switching** - Switch between branches via dropdown
- **Branch/Worktree Creation** - Create new branch workspaces from any repository
- **Ahead/Behind Tracking** - Shows commits ahead/behind remote
- **Push PRs to GitHub** - Create and push pull requests directly from your phone

### File Browser
- **Directory Navigation** - Browse files and folders with tree view
- **File Search** - Search files within directories
- **Syntax Highlighting** - Code preview with syntax highlighting
- **File Operations** - Create files/folders, rename, delete
- **Drag-and-Drop Upload** - Upload files by dragging into the browser
- **Large File Support** - Virtualization for large files
- **ZIP Download** - Download repos as ZIP excluding gitignored files

### Chat & Session Features
- **Slash Commands** - Built-in commands (`/help`, `/new`, `/models`, `/export`, `/compact`, etc.)
- **Custom Commands** - Create custom slash commands with templates
- **File Mentions** - Reference files with `@filename` autocomplete
- **Plan/Build Mode Toggle** - Switch between read-only and file-change modes
- **Mermaid Diagram Support** - Visual diagram rendering in chat messages
- **Session Management** - Create, search, delete, and bulk delete sessions
- **Real-time Streaming** - Live message streaming with SSE

### AI Model & Provider Configuration
- **Model Selection** - Browse and select from available AI models with filtering
- **Provider Management** - Configure multiple AI providers with API keys or OAuth
- **OAuth Authentication** - Secure OAuth login for supported providers (Anthropic, GitHub Copilot)
- **Context Usage Indicator** - Visual progress bar showing token usage
- **Agent Configuration** - Create custom agents with system prompts and tool permissions

### MCP Server Management
- **MCP Server Configuration** - Add local (command-based) or remote (HTTP) MCP servers
- **Server Templates** - Pre-built templates for common MCP servers
- **Enable/Disable Servers** - Toggle servers on/off with auto-restart

### Settings & Customization
- **Theme Selection** - Dark, Light, or System theme
- **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Customizable keyboard shortcuts
- **OpenCode Config Editor** - Raw JSON editor for advanced configuration

### Mobile & PWA
- **Mobile-First Design** - Responsive UI optimized for mobile use
- **PWA Support** - Installable as Progressive Web App
- **iOS Keyboard Support** - Proper keyboard handling on iOS
- **Enter Key Send** - Press Enter to automatically close keyboard and send messages
- **Swipe-to-Navigate** - Swipe right from left edge to navigate back

### Text-to-Speech (TTS)
- **Dual Provider Support** - Browser-native Web Speech API + external OpenAI-compatible endpoints
- **Browser-Native TTS** - Built-in Web Speech API for instant playback without API keys
- **AI Message Playback** - Listen to assistant responses with TTS
- **OpenAI-Compatible** - Works with any OpenAI-compatible TTS endpoint
- **Voice & Speed Discovery** - Automatic voice detection with caching (1hr TTL)
- **Voice & Speed Controls** - Configurable voice selection and playback speed
- **Audio Caching** - 24-hour cache with 200MB limit for performance
- **Markdown Sanitization** - Filters unreadable symbols for smooth playback
- **Floating Controls** - Persistent stop button for audio control
- **Custom Endpoints** - Connect to local or self-hosted TTS services

## Screenshots

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Files (Mobile)</strong></td>
<td><strong>Files (Desktop)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24243e5e-ab02-44ff-a719-263f61c3178b" alt="files-mobile" /></td>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a37feb0-391c-48a1-8bda-44a046aad913" alt="files-desktop" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Chat (Mobile)</strong></td>
<td><strong>Chat (Desktop)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a48cc728-e540-4247-879a-c5f36c3fd6de" alt="chat-mobile" width="250" /></td>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5fe34443-1d06-4847-a397-ef472aae0932" alt="chat-desktop" width="600" /></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Inline Diff View</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b94c0ca0-d960-4888-8a25-a31ed6d5068d" alt="inline-diff-view" width="250" /></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Coming Soon

-  **Authentication** - User authentication and session management

## Installation

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended for Production)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/chriswritescode-dev/opencode-manager.git
cd opencode-manager

# Start with Docker Compose (single container)
docker-compose up -d

# Access the application at http://localhost:5001
```

The Docker setup automatically:
- Installs OpenCode if not present
- Builds and serves frontend from backend
- Sets up persistent volumes for workspace and database
- Includes health checks and auto-restart

**Docker Commands:**
```bash
# Start container
docker-compose up -d

# Stop and remove container
docker-compose down

# Rebuild image
docker-compose build

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Restart container
docker-compose restart

# Access container shell
docker exec -it opencode-manager sh
```

### Dev Server Ports

The Docker container exposes ports `5100-5103` for running dev servers inside your repositories. Configure your project's dev server to use one of these ports and access it directly from your browser.

**Example usage:**
```bash
# Vite (vite.config.ts)
server: { port: 5100, host: '0.0.0.0' }

# Next.js
next dev -p 5100 -H 0.0.0.0

# Express/Node
app.listen(5100, '0.0.0.0')
```

Access your dev server at `http://localhost:5100` (or your Docker host IP).

To customize the exposed ports, edit `docker-compose.yml`:
```yaml
ports:
  - "5003:5003"      # OpenCode Manager
  - "5100:5100"      # Dev server 1
  - "5101:5101"      # Dev server 2
  - "5102:5102"      # Dev server 3
  - "5103:5103"      # Dev server 4
```

### Global Agent Instructions (AGENTS.md)

OpenCode Manager creates a default `AGENTS.md` file in the workspace config directory (`/workspace/.config/opencode/AGENTS.md`). This file provides global instructions to AI agents working within the container.

**Default instructions include:**
- Reserved ports (5003 for OpenCode Manager, 5551 for OpenCode server)
- Available dev server ports (5100-5103)
- Guidelines for binding to `0.0.0.0` for Docker accessibility

**Editing AGENTS.md:**
- Via UI: Settings > OpenCode > Global Agent Instructions
- Via file: Edit `/workspace/.config/opencode/AGENTS.md` directly

This file is merged with any repository-specific `AGENTS.md` files, with repository instructions taking precedence for their respective codebases.

### Option 2: Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/chriswritescode-dev/opencode-manager.git
cd opencode-manager

# Install dependencies (uses Bun workspaces)
bun install

# Copy environment configuration
cp .env.example .env

# Start development servers (backend + frontend)
npm run dev
```

## OAuth Provider Setup

OpenCode WebUI supports OAuth authentication for select providers, offering a more secure and convenient alternative to API keys.

### Supported OAuth Providers

- **Anthropic (Claude)** - OAuth login with Claude Pro/Max accounts
- **GitHub Copilot** - OAuth device flow authentication

### Setting Up OAuth

1. **Navigate to Settings → Provider Credentials**
2. **Select a provider** that shows the "OAuth" badge
3. **Click "Add OAuth"** to start the authorization flow
4. **Choose authentication method:**
   - **"Open Authorization Page"** - Opens browser for sign-in
   - **"Use Authorization Code"** - Provides code for manual entry
5. **Complete authorization** in the browser or enter the provided code
6. **Connection status** will show as "Configured" when successful
